---
layout: post
title: "Book Study: The Phoenix Project - Part 1"
published: false
---

## Section 1: Chapters 1-4
### *Themes*
- Companies rely on technology/ computers more and more.
- Lean management principles apply to IT/ knowledge work as much as manufacturing plants
  - Visual work
  - Constraint management
### *Key Takeaways*
3 Ways
4 types of work
Business Projects
Lean management applies to knowledge work
Discussion Questions
What can we implement/ How can we incorporate lessons?
What really resonated with you?
Do you know any Brent's?
Chapter 1
IT needs to work like plumbing
2nd and 3rd order effects of critical system failure
Chapter 2
Network operations center as a central location during a crisis pg 30
Reliance on messiah (Brent) over scripture (systems/ procedures) pg 33
Working an outage: Establish a timeline pg 35.
Chapter 3
Poor IT hardware maintenance (old SAN) pg 37
Deployment window 4 months away pg 42
Change management is critical pg 44
IT seems to always work late hours pg 44
Chapter 4
“It’s amazing to me how handoffs between Development and IT Operations always get screwed up.” pg 49
IT is critical to/ involved in many projects pg 49
Development environment and production. Case for VMs/ containerization pg 52
Deadlines driving decisions pg 54
symptom of poor scoping and poor risk management
Break-fix cycle pg 56 (top)
Desktop support delays pg 57
Section 2: Chapters 5-7
Themes
Theory of Constraints (TOC)
We need to see our selves
Are we doing the right things?
Are we doing things right?
Key Takeaways
Critical to have an understanding of what work we're doing and where is it coming from
Discussion Questions
Where do we keep our master work list?
Can you identify a constraint in your current workflow?
Chapter 5
Old servers barely hanging on pg 68
Brent is bottleneck according to Theory of Constraints pg 69
List of work to do pg 70
Chapter 6
“Knowing is always better than not knowing.” pg 76
Resource planning pg 76
Hiring and time until EE is effective 6-12 months pg 77
Change management card process pg 80-81
Chapter 7
“Can’t achieve strategic until you’ve mastered the tactical.” pg 87
Deliverables, outages, and compliance pg 88
Three management movements pg 89
Theory of Constraints
Toyota Production System
Total Quality Management
WIP is the silent killer
Pace work to the bottleneck pg 90
"... any improvements made anywhere besides the bottleneck are an illusion"
“... ensure the fast, predictable, and uninterrupted flow of planned work that delivers value to the business while minimizing the impact and disruption of unplanned work, so you can provide stable, predictable, and secure IT service.” pg 91
"... figure out how to control the release of work into IT Operations and, more importantly, ensure that your most constrained resources are doing only the work that serves the goal of the entire system, not just one silo."
Three Ways pg 91
Fast flow of work as it moves from Development into IT Operations. That is what is between the business and the customer.
Shorten and amplify feedback loops, so we can fix quality at the source and avoid rework.
Create a culture that simultaneously fosters experimentation, learning from failure, and understanding that repetition and practice are the prerequisites to mastery.
Four types of work pg 88 & 92
Business Projects
Section 3: Chapters 8-12
Themes
IT Value Stream
Change control process
Link between plant floor management and IT Operations
Key Takeaways
How to deal with a constraint to a system
Four types of work
Business Projects pg 92
IT Internal Projects pg 109
Changes pg 110
Discussion Questions
Do you have a Value Stream Map for your workflows?
What is the percent of changes each week that fail or need to be deferred/ rescheduled?
Chapter 8
CAB Process:
High Risk, "fragile" - changes must be authorized by CAB before being scheduled and implemented. pg 100
Medium Risk, "messy middle" - change submitter has responsibility and accountability for consulting and getting approval from people potentially affected. Once arranged, they submit the change to the CAB for review and scheduling. pg 102
Low Risk, "standard" - changes we've done many times successfully are preapprove. They still need to be submitted, but can be scheduled without the CAB. pg 102
Chapter 9
Dealing with a SEV 1 incident pg 105
Start call by presenting a timeline of all relevant events pg 106
Need to know all changes pg 105
Finger pointing is unproductive pg 105
Announce and discuss any changes before implementing pg 106
Four types of work
Business Projects pg 92
IT Internal Projects pg 109
Changes pg 110
Chapter 10
Brent the bottleneck
Isolate the constraint
Put safe guards in place to protect the constrained resource
"... create a resource pool of level 3 engineers to handle the escalations, but keep Brent out of the pool. The level 3s would be responsible for resolving all incidents to closure, and would be the only people who can get access to Brent.
... they are responsible for documenting what they learned, and Brent would never be allowed to work on the same problem twice
... Brent not allowed to touch keyboard. He's allowed to tell people what to type and shoulder surf only."
"Processes are supposed to protect people." pg 115
"Every time that we let Brent fix something that none of can replicate, Brent gets a little smarter, and the entire system gets dumber." pg 116
Chapter 11
Continued development of CAB process
Need to limit work in the system
Color coding change cards if they involve bottle neck
Work in Process (WIP) of IT work
Chapter 12
Phoenix project deployment day
Inconsistent environments
IT working all hours
Database migration scripts failures
Impact to retail store POS's
Request to delay Phoenix launch
Credit card security failure
Section 4: Chapters 13-16
Themes
Business and IT need to work together
Key Takeaways
IT exists to satisfy business requirements.
Can't always say no.
"Deciding what not to do is just as important as deciding what to do."
Discussion Questions
As BI "developers" we need to be aware of what we get the ops people into.
Do we as IT have a good idea of how we prioritize business projects?
Chapter 13
Phoenix deployment
Crazy working conditions for deployments
Massive PCI issue
Chapter 14
Business holds IT responsible for finding solutions not just saying no.“I need the business to tell me it’s no longer being held hostage by you IT guys. This has been the running complaint the entire time I’ve been CEO. IT is in the way of every major initiative. Meanwhile, our competitors pull away from us, leaving us in the dust. Dammit, we can’t even take a crap without IT being in the way.”
Marketing Access Database programa combination of the need to deliver needed features to market, forcing us to take shortcuts, which are causing ever-worsening deployments.
Post Phoenix party
Chapter 15
Change control process prevented disaster
Fourth category of work is "Unplanned Work"
Business projects
IT projects
Change control
Unplanned work
Three ways
Fast flow of work from dev through ops to business
Feedback
Stabilize environment
Visualize and manage work
Manage constraint
"The Goal" by Eli Goldratt
identify the constraint.
exploit the constraint
subordinate the constraint
elevate the constraint
prevent inertia from becoming the constraint
Deciding what not to do is just as important as deciding what to do.
invoicing issue
the right way to handle a sev 1 incident
quitting over convictions
Chapter 16
Invoices incident
Dealing with a Sev-1 incident
Bill resigns
Section 5: Chapters 17-21
Themes
Building trust
Using Lean techniques to manage IT
Key Takeaways
Project freeze
Work centers for IT
Discussion Questions
Do we have anything like a Bill of Resources or Bill of Materials?
Chapter 17
Making up with Steve
Chapter 18
mtg with CEO and all IT leaders
Steve's background
Chapter 19
mtg with CEO and all IT leaders
Other leader's backgrounds
Project freeze
Chapter 20
after project freeze, those not relying on constraint can be released
work centers for IT
man, method, machine, measure
bill of resources, and routing
work instructions
utilization is hrs busy / hrs avail
50/50 wait 1 unit vs 90/10 wait 9 units, vs 99/1 wait 99 units
Chapter 21
audit meeting
scoping error
management controls that backstop IT
Section 6: Chapters 22-26
Themes
IT needs to have a good understanding of the business measures
Key Takeaways
Improvement kata
IT project types
Utilization graph points to why wait times can be so long
Fleet management oil change analogy
Discussion Questions
What are our businesses kpis? Do we have a chart or slide like Dick's
Chapter 22
improvement kata

2wk cycle for plan, do, check, act
color coding change board

Green - IT internal 20%
purple - top 5 business projects
yellow - not priority
pink sticky for stuck
It project types

Replace fragile infrastructure
Vendor upgrades and patching
support internal projects
audit and security work
data center work
three categories

increase capacity to constraint
doesn't require constraint
all others
laptop replacement queue
Chapter 23
resource graph
Chapter 24
meeting w/ John at bar
importance of honest feedback
Chapter 25
meeting with Dick
managers measurement program
CFO questions
describe a good day and bad day
what are goals, objectives, and measurements for the year
systems thinking
fleet management oil change analogy
Chapter 26
marketing phoenix project reporting delayed until next year
planning horizon for IT projects greater than 12 months
Section 7: Chapters 27-31
Themes
Using Lean tools to improve IT operations
Key Takeaways
Shadow IT
Flow of work one way - "Single Piece Flow"
Find constraint, then look for way to automate
Discussion Questions
Do we use process mapping to visualize our workflows?
What are our top three critical workflows?
Do we have scripts or something like an automatic build system?
Chapter 27
CIA triangle of data
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability
Chapter 28 (9:25:45)
Shadow IT
Increased performance of group
Phoenix deployment #2
Chapter 29 (9:47:24)
mtg w/ Steve re: John's recommendations
No reverse gear
Flow of work one way - "Single Piece Flow"
Faster cycle time, speed up release schedule
when things are bad, do more of them to improve not less to avoid.
like football practice or military training
SWAT team to do some features
Chapter 30 (10:04:15)
visit to MRP plant
"inner Allspaw"
takt time
find constraint, then look for way to automate
Ohno, Spear, Rother
Dev -> Ops -> QA -> Business = super tribe
Eric Reis "Lean Startup"
Chapter 31 (10:38:30)
Process mapping white board
Value Stream Map
Automating environment setups
Section 8: Chapters 32-35
Themes
IT critical competency for all senior business leaders
Key Takeaways
Small little teams (2 pizza team) to rapidly develop features
Loosely coupled architecture better for flexible development
VM architecture to help scale out and up
Discussion Questions
Can you name any senior business leaders in our organization with an IT background?
Chapter 32 (10:38:30)
decouple from Phoenix
open source db
how do you manage db sprawl
Brent secret mission
Chapter 33 (10:52:30)
VM scale out parrallization, spin up then down
Starting to see benefits of cloud
Chapter 34
Trouble at Thanksgiving goes much more smoothly
Ability to rollback features
Unicorn team moving to continuous delivery
Chapter 35
not being CIO
Bill's career plan
Sarah leaving
Books I'd Like to See
Book from Sarah's perspective (Business Perspective).
Book from Bill's prior work to create a good mid level ops team. Phoenix Project for small teams.
