---
layout: post
title: "TribalNet 2025: Day 3 Notes"
published: true
tags:
  - Conference
  - Tribal IT
  - Leadership
---

I'm in Reno, NV this week for
**[TribalNet 2025](https://tribalhub.com/events/tribalnet-conferences/2025-tribalnet-conference-tradeshow/)**.
Yesterday I shared [my notes from day 2](https://peter.zaffina.net/blog/TribalNet-2025-Day-2/), here are the sessions I attended on day 3 along with key takeaways from each.

---

#### [Executive Leadership: Perspectives and Discussion](https://tribalhub.com/events/tribalnet-conferences/2025-tribalnet-conference-tradeshow/agenda/#event_session_33035)

The panel with Robby Jakovljevic, and Steve Neely provided great insight into how executives view technology. My main insight was the importance of **speaking the language of the business**. When talking to executives, the advice was to "be brief, be brilliant, be gone." At steering committee meetings, it's crucial to avoid getting bogged down in technical tactics and instead focus on the high-level business impact of your work.

---

### [From Expert to Influencer](https://tribalhub.com/events/tribalnet-conferences/2025-tribalnet-conference-tradeshow/agenda/#event_session_33039)

Luke Freeman and Stephanie Licata’s session highlighted that a technology leader's role extends beyond managing systems to influencing organizational transformation. They stressed that effective leadership requires strong soft skills and self-awareness.

My key insights were about communication and empathy. You must **simplify without diminishing** complex technical ideas and **listen deeply to uncover hidden concerns** from non-technical teams. This approach helps build trust, reduce resistance, and position you as a strategic voice in your organization.